### This program is a signal app chat bot.

It was written as a volunteer effort for fellow ICE watchers. The intention is to allow for members of a signal chat to snap a photo or manually enter in a licence plate number and for that value to be held in an SQLlite Database, locally.

Still obviously early in development, it does not quite do anything at this commit. I intend to use a photo reading library to read the license plate text from photos uploaded to the signal chat, which will download to the host PC where it'll be read by this program. It is intended for small scale use and each group should run it's own. Data transfer between instances may be considered in the future.

I will include a shellscript for an installation using signal-api to mimick the setup I am using. It will only work for linux operating systems.

### To install the chat bot:

Please have Python3 installed correctly.
Install the libraries this script uses. You can do so with:
> pip install asyncio, signalbot, logging, yaml, nest_asyncio

Rename or copy the file named config.example.yaml to be config.yaml and set the values inside to your values. Please note the area code is required for the phone number.
> signal_service: "http://localhost:8080"

> PHONE_NUMBER = +19100000000

You will need to install and use a the signal-cli, which can be downloaded [here](https://github.com/AsamK/signal-cli/releases/latest).
You will need the signal-cli-rest-api as well, but the download and installation is handled by dockerInit.sh

### To setup the chat bot:
Firstly, you'll want to connect the host device to your bot's account, or create a new account. Either way, you'll need a real phone number to maintain the account. I use singal-cli for this. Please see the [Quickstart guide for signal-api](https://github.com/AsamK/signal-cli/wiki/Quickstart).

I ended up linking my primary account to the new bot account. My android phone is my primary device, so linking this required taking the text link given by the signal-cli and putting it through a QR code generator tool so you can scan it on your phone. Do not do this on an online site - I recommend the [amazing-qr](https://github.com/x-hw/amazing-qr) tool for the job.

My steps to do this:

In 1 terminal, run

> signal-cli link -n "My Bot"

In the 2nd terminal run this command, copying the $LINK generated by the first command.
You must not close the active process in terminal number 1 until the device is linked.

> amzqr "$LINK"

The quotations are necessary since the link is quite large.

## Starting the chat bot, after setup
First first time set up, please run dockerInit.sh by typing in the terminal, on the correct directory, "bash dockerInit.sh"

First usage after setup, you'll need to run all 3: signal-cli, signal-cli-rest-api docker image, and this program's main.py
For now this requires 3 terminal windows. I will be working on shortening that.

## Notes 24 March 2026
As of this commit, I have all 3 programs "running" but my python program is still saying signal-cli-rest-api is not yet showing to it. I will need to investigate my installation of the docker image and see what I'll need to modify from here. This program is still not ready, nor does it do anything yet.